README.md, before:

# **asnreject**

`asnreject` is an `iptables` wrapper that rejects outgoing traffic to ASN IP addresses.

This project was created specifically to block ASNs (allocated IPv4 and IPv6 addresses) of big tech companies. `asnreject` grants users the power to seamlessly stop their invasive tracking practices at the operating system firewall level and claim back their privacy.

- [Install](#install)
- [Uninstall](#uninstall)
- [Arguments](#arguments)
- [To-Do](#to-do)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Install

__1)__ Install `asnreject` and its configuration file:

```
sudo make
```

__2)__ Edit the configuration file to add one ASN per line, such as "[AS15169](https://www.radb.net/query?keywords=AS15169)":

```
sudo $editor_of_choice /usr/local/etc/asnreject.conf
```

And ensure ASNs are listed in this fashion:

```
AS15169
AS123
AS456
```

__3)__ Create new firewall reject rules:

```
sudo asnreject create
```

__4)__ Ping a domain name whose IP address is part of a targeted ASN and verify it is being blocked:

```
ping -c 1 example.com
```

Which should display messages such as these:

```
icmp_seq=1 Destination Port Unreachable
ping: sendmsg: Operation not permitted
1 packets transmitted, 0 received, +1 errors, 100% packet loss, time 0m
```

These messages indicate that outgoing traffic to `example.com` is being rejected.

## Uninstall

From this repository, run the following to remove `asnreject`:

```
make uninstall
```

Or run the following to remove both `asnreject` and its configuration file:

```
make clean
```

## Arguments

Arguments | Description
---       | ---
[none]    | Display help.
`create`  | Query ASN(s) for IP subnetworks and create new firewall reject rules.
`delete`  | Delete firewall reject rules.
`stop`    | Temporarily disregard current firewall reject rules.
`resume`  | Reinstate current firewall reject rules.

## To-Do

Access the [ticket tracker](https://todo.sr.ht/~speguero/tracker?search=label:%22todo%22%20%5Basnreject%5D) for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome!

Submit __patches__ via email at [~speguero/patch@lists.sr.ht](mailto:~speguero/patch@lists.sr.ht) using [git-send-email](https://git-send-email.io). Include `[asnreject]` at the beginning of your subject line.

Submit __issue__, __question__ and __suggestion__ tickets as a [SourceHut registered user](https://todo.sr.ht/~speguero/tracker) or via email at [~speguero/tracker@todo.sr.ht](mailto:~speguero/tracker@todo.sr.ht). Include `[asnreject]` at the beginning of your subject line.

Items submitted to mirror repositories on GitHub and GitLab will be ignored.

## License

Access the `LICENSE` file for details.

Commit message:

Rename project, rewrite project for multi-platform support

README.md, after:

# **asndrop**

`asndrop` is a `nftables` wrapper whose intended purpose is to protect one's privacy from big tech conglomerates, which is achieved by using your operating system's firewall to drop outgoing traffic to IP addresses that exist within their ASN-associated subnetworks.

- [Install](#install)
- [Uninstall](#uninstall)
- [Arguments](#arguments)
- [To-Do](#to-do)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Install

__1)__ Install `asndrop` and its configuration file:

```
sudo make
```

__2)__ Edit the configuration file to add one ASN per line, such as "[AS15169](https://www.radb.net/query?keywords=AS15169)":

```
sudo $editor_of_choice /usr/local/etc/asndrop.conf
```

And ensure ASNs are listed in this fashion:

```
AS15169
AS123
AS456
```

__3)__ Create new firewall drop rules:

```
sudo asndrop create
```

__4)__ Ping a domain name whose IP address is part of a targeted ASN and verify it is being blocked:

```
ping -c 1 example.com
```

Which should display messages such as these:

```
icmp_seq=1 Destination Port Unreachable
ping: sendmsg: Operation not permitted
1 packets transmitted, 0 received, +1 errors, 100% packet loss, time 0m
```

These messages indicate that outgoing traffic to `example.com` is being dropped.

## Uninstall

From this repository, run the following to remove `asndrop`:

```
make uninstall
```

Or run the following to remove both `asndrop` and its configuration file:

```
make clean
```

## Arguments

Arguments | Description
---       | ---
[none]    | Display help.
`help`    | Display help.
`create`  | Generate firewall drop rules.
`stop`    | Undo firewall drop rules.
`resume`  | Resume enforcement of cached firewall drop rules.

## To-Do

Access the [ticket tracker](https://todo.sr.ht/~speguero/tracker?search=label:%22todo%22%20%5Basndrop%5D) for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome!

Submit __patches__ via email at [~speguero/patch@lists.sr.ht](mailto:~speguero/patch@lists.sr.ht) using [git-send-email](https://git-send-email.io). Include `[asndrop]` at the beginning of your subject line.

Submit __issue__, __question__ and __suggestion__ tickets as a [SourceHut registered user](https://todo.sr.ht/~speguero/tracker) or via email at [~speguero/tracker@todo.sr.ht](mailto:~speguero/tracker@todo.sr.ht). Include `[asndrop]` at the beginning of your subject line.

Items submitted to mirror repositories on GitHub and GitLab will be ignored.

## License

Access the `LICENSE` file for details.
